Welcome back.
In this video we're going to be going over solutions to the filter exercises the first function we're
going to implement is filter by value which accepts an array and some key to search by.
We're going to return the result of the array data filter and inside of the callback we're going to
return for each object at that key is not undefined.
What we're doing is checking to see if each object has the key we're looking for.
And if it does that object will be included in the new array the filter returns to us.
Notice here that we're using bracket notation because we need javascript to evaluate the value of the
key.
The next function we're going to implement is find which accepts an array and some search value.
We're going to return the result of filtering that array and inside of the callback we're going to see
where the value is the same as the search value that we're looking for.
Since filter returns an array to us we want to return the first thing in that array.
So we're going to directly access this at index 0 if the filtered arrays empty this function will return
undefined the next function we're going to implement is a variation of fine called find in object which
accepts an array and a key and some search value.
This function is going to look very similar to find.
So we're going to return the result of filtering the array but instead we're going to return the value
at a specific key when it is the same as the search value.
And just like fine will access this at index 0.
The next function we're going to implement is remove vowels.
And it accepts a string.
First let's create a variable called vals which will be a string of all the vowels.
Then let's convert the string to lowercase and split each character into an array so that we can filter
it inside of the callback.
You can check to see if that character we are at is inside of the vowel string using index of if it
is not we will add it to the filtered array.
Finally we will join this array back into a string with all the vowels removed.
As an aside there are many ways of accomplishing this task some more efficient than others.
The goal here is to practice using filter to try to solve the problem using that.
The last function we're going to implement is called Double odd numbers.
We're first going to filter the array and return all the values that are not that visible by 2.
We're then going to map over this array and return a new array with each value multiplied by two.
Here we are combining filter and map to return the correct output and that's all for these exercises.
See you in the next video.